# Great Depreciation. Why Japanese Yen sunk severely?

_17th June 2022_
[See chinese version in here 查看文章的中文版本](https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/530467812)

The depreciation happened so quickly. The yen has careened to a 24-year low against the dollar, after having been taken down 14 per cent since early January, reaching JP¥134.55 against the US$ on 9 June. 

The main reason is the BOJ abnormal behavers. Unlike other major central banks choosing tightening policy, BOJ decided to stick to its ultra-loose monetary policy, refusing to bow down to market pressures. BOJ declared to keep its overnight rate at minus 0.1 per cent, which means the yield of 10-year bonds are at 0.25 per cent. 

As compared, the Federal Reserve raised its main interest rate by 0.75 percentage points this week, to a target range of 1.50-1.75 per cent, in order to tame scorching inflation. The appalling last quarter inflation shocked the market, and force Fed to think about the fierce risk of inflation. Not only did the ultra-loose monetary policy lead to the inflation, but also the Russia-invasion caused to a cost-push inflation. This made the economy worse, as some think it is into stagflation, although this word is so scary that many people hope it is not real. However, Fed must face this fact. On this Wednesday, Fed chair Jay Powell said achieving soft-landing has been more challenging, although the central bank was not trying to trigger a recession. “It’s going to depend to some extent on factors we don’t control.”

Most major central banks have chosen to follow the path of Fed. For example, Deutsche Bank analysts predicted ECB rate could lift its deposit rate from minus 0.5 per cent to 1.25 per cent by December this year. BOE also decided to rise interest rate, although the rising degree is far less than Fed, therefore BOE has been accused of going soft on inflation.

However, BOJ said “NO” to this trend, as it thought the underlying demand in the economy remains too weak to tighten monetary policy, and unless its counterparts, BOJ has a confidence that the inflation will be transitory. After 30-year of price stagnation, Japan holds a different inflation psychology – workers no longer demand higher wages and companies do not pass on price rises. If companies must pay more for imports but cannot raise retail prices, they will suffer a profit squeeze. Their response is usually to seek to cut wage costs, ultimately causing deflationary rather than inflationary pressures. “In Japan, increases in import prices can lead to deflation. That is why it’s hard to imagine inflation can be sustained in Japan.” said Masamichi Adachi, chief economist at UBS in Tokyo.

Also, the depreciation of Yen may lead to an increase in Japan export. During the history of Japan, the blooming was majorly due to expanding of export, such as Japanese cars, textures, chips, and so on. After the diffidence of Tokyo 2020 Olympic, this depreciation are regarded as a chance for making ‘Made in Japan’ back.

However, not all Japanese are glade to see the depreciation. Although the consumer inflation is hovering at about 2 per cent, broadly in line with targets, some goods’ price increase more than others, especially foods, whose price volatised a lot. As the elections for Japan’s upper house of parliament is coming, this situation made BOJ in an embarrassing position. In last week, Haruhiko Kuroda, the governor of the BOJ, forced to retract his claim that consumers would tolerant wo price rises. In addition, because many businesses no longer manufacture high-volume commodity products at domestic Japan, flee their factory to other human resources rich countries, it is doubt that whether yen’s fall can ignite the jump in export as past.
